# Environment variables

## Running a Zulip server with `docker compose`

To use this project, we recommend starting by cloning the repository (since
you'll want to edit the `docker-compose.yml` file in this project):

```
git clone https://github.com/zulip/docker-zulip.git
cd docker-zulip
# Edit `docker-compose.yml` to configure; see docs below
```

## Configuration

With `docker compose`, it is traditional to configure a service by
setting environment variables declared in the `zulip -> environment`
section of the `docker-compose.yml` file; this image follows that
convention.

## Mandatory settings

The following settings are required:

- `SETTING_EXTERNAL_HOST`: The hostname your users will use to
  connect to your Zulip server. If you're testing on your laptop,
  the default of `localhost.localdomain` is great.

- `SETTING_ZULIP_ADMINISTRATOR`: The email address to receive error
  and support emails generated by the Zulip server and its users.

## Common production configuration

- `SETTING_EMAIL_*`: Where you configure Zulip's ability to send
  [outgoing email][outgoing-email].

- Set `ZULIP_AUTH_BACKENDS` to a comma-separated list of the backend names
  (e.g., `"EmailAuthBackend,GoogleAuthBackend"`). This takes the place of
  `SETTING_AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS`. See the [main Zulip
  documentation][auth-methods].

[outgoing-email]: https://zulip.readthedocs.io/en/latest/production/email.html
[auth-methods]: https://zulip.readthedocs.io/en/latest/production/authentication-methods.html

**Other settings**. If an environment variable name doesn't start with
`SETTING` or `SECRETS` in `docker-compose.yml`, it is specific to the
Docker environment. Standard [Zulip server settings][server-settings]
are secrets are set using the following syntax:

- `SETTING_MY_SETTING` will become `MY_SETTING` in
  `/etc/zulip/settings.py`
- `SECRETS_my_secret` will become `my_secret` in
  `/etc/zulip/zulip-secrets.conf`.

Reading the comments in the sample
[Zulip's settings.py file][prod-settings-template] is the best way to
learn about the full set of Zulip's supported server-level settings.

Most settings in Zulip are just strings, but some are lists (etc.)
which you need to encode in the YAML file. For example,

- LDAP authentication currently requires
  [`MANUAL_CONFIGURATION`](#manual-configuration) in order to encode
  the `LDAPSearch` logic, see below.

**Reducing RAM usage**. By default, the Zulip server automatically detect
whether the system has enough memory to run Zulip queue processors in the
higher-throughput but more multiprocess mode (or to save 1.5GiB of RAM with
the multi-threaded mode). This algorithm might see the host's memory, not the
docker container's memory. Set to `QUEUE_WORKERS_MULTIPROCESS` to `true` or
`false` to override the automatic calculation.
